Now the next topic incremental decrement operators.
These are most commonly use operators in C++ programming.
So in this video you'll understand what are these operators and what is their use.
We will learn about this and also after this video we will have a demonstration.
So let us look at the operators, see here
There are two types of operators.
One is increment operator and second one is decrement  operator.
And then again in increment decrement  again there are two types.
One is pre-increment.
Second is post increment and likewise pre decrement  and post decrement.
So lets understand what are all these and how they work. for explanation,
I have taken one example here see I have a variable i, i is already having value 5 then I have written
this type of statement.
So this type of statement you are already familiar with it.
What does it mean.
This means that in the value of i, that is 5 add 1.
So make it six total will be 6 and store this 6 in i, so with this value of i will increase by one
increment by 1.
The same statement even I can write like this by using compound assignment operator I plus assign one.
So suppose I value is a five then plus one it becomes a six and six is stored in i.
So instead of writing I assign i plus one.
I can also write I plus assign one this we have learned in the previous video.
Now we have increment Operator instead of that so let us see what is the use.
See here i is five then plus one it becomes six then plus one.
It will become seven.
So by adding one every time we can go on increment it.
What is the use of such variable why you want to increment it,  see this type of variables are mostly useful
for counting like if you count you will say first 1 then plus 1 you will say 2 then plus 1 you'll say
3 plus 1 you say 4.
So for counting purposes you'll have to go on adding 1 to the number.
So it will be go on increasing by 1 every time so it helps for counting.
So yes this type of operation that is incrementing by 1 is more common in programming where
we have to count.
So here I is just like a counter.
So right now I is a 5 then plus 1 it becomes 6.
So if you want to count from the beginning.
start i from 0 onwards 0 then 1 then 2 then 3 and so on.
So as I said  this counting is more common in programming that is the reason C++ has introduced increment
operator.
So instead of writing it like this or this we can write
I plus plus this also means the same thing.
This is same as these two statement here.
You are adding one here you are adding one and this also means adding one.
Once you get used to then it looks very simple.
That plus plus means increase the value by one.
So this is more commonly useful in loops where we will perform repeated statements or repeatedly we
go on incrementing it so it behaves like a counter.
Now I will show you what is the difference between pre-increment and post increment.
So once you understand this I don't have to explain this one you can understand by yourself.
Now let us see the difference.
I will remove this and I will take a different example and show you.
So here I have an example let us understand pre-increment and post increment.
I have a variable X having value five then if I say X plus plus then X becomes 6.
Even if I say plus plus X then also X becomes 6.
weather I write like this or like this both have same meaning either pre increment or post increment
whatever the statement may be, the result is same.
Then what is the difference between pre and post.
So let us see just remove this thing.
These are not there, now.
Again X is 5.
So if I say y assign with plus plus X right now X is 5.
Okay assuming these are not there.
Okay.
Remove them.
So y assigned plus plus X means what.
There are two operations here.
One is increment other one this assignment so which has to be done first.
So first increment has to be done.
This operation has to be done.
Then second this operation has to be done.
So first increment is done. increment is done means
This X becomes 6.
So this becomes 6 and 6 is a stored in y.
So after this if you print the result then X is also 6 and Y is also 6.
So this means first increment value then assign it to y.
This is the meaning now what does it mean by post increment.
So I'll write down the same thing again.
Let us say X is the five only right.
Now.
Okay.
Don't take it as six, freshly again it is 5.
So then if I write y assign x plus plus then there are two operations here.
Assignment and increment so which has to be done first.
So first.
This has to be done.
Then this has to be done.
Second one.
So it means the value of x is assigned to y first.
So what is x right now.
Five so y becomes five.
Then x plus plus X becomes six afterwards X becomes 6.
So this will be the result of this statement.
So here two operations were there for first this was performed and this one then here,
First assignment is performed then this one.
What does it mean pre increment means.
First increment it  then use the variable and post increment means first use the variable in the
assignment and then increment it.
I'll show you one more example.
See suppose I have some more variables like X, y is also there having value 10 and Z is also
there.
So if I say Z assign X plus plus multiplied by Y so actually X and Y has to be multiplied but X should
also be incremented.
So first increment is done or afterwards is it done?
It has done afterward so first which operations perform multiplication.
So what is the value of x 5 into 10 so this 50 is stored in Z and then X becomes 6 x will become 6.
So after this the result will be X is 6 and the y is 10 only it is not being modified and the Z becomes
50, that's the result.
And if I'm using pre increment here if I say plus plus X then what happens.
So first of all this X will increment and X becomes six and then multiplied by Y that is 10 and the result
60 is stored in Z.
So the result is this one and this one and Z will be having value sixty because first the value
of x is incremented then later used in the expression.
This is the difference between pre-increment and post increment.
So depending on your requirement you should know which one you want in a particular formula or an
expression and you should use that one and when you are using independently, once again I will show
you if you write just X plus plus  or vice versa they have same effect but if you use it along
with the some other variables then they have different meaning that's all about pre and post increment
increment are different.
So this increment and decrement operate as you will know them right now.
So we'll use them at many places right.
So we don't have to see any example programs on this one right now but there is a coding exercise available
...
So you complete that coding exercise and also demonstration of these operators is given in the next
video.
So that's all about increment and Decrement  operators.